W-15045514 Connector configuration in ACB (#2513)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: file/1.5/modules/ROOT/pages/file-acb-configuration.adoc

= Using Anypoint Code Builder to Configure File Connector - Mule 4

> include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-connector-config-intro"]

Reviewer: I think that the first paragraph needs a lead-in for context - something like this: 
To use Anypoint Code Builder to configure File Connector...

Author: Since this is a partial, I want to keep the description generic, so I put: To use Anypoint Code Builder to configure a connector, create a basic...

Reviewer: OK

== Creating a New Integration Project

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-create-integration-project"]

== Adding the Connector to Your Integration Project

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-add-connector-to-project"]

[[configuring-trigger]]
== Configuring the Trigger For the Flow

A trigger (source) initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these triggers to use with File Connector:

* *On New or Upated File*
+

> Triggers a flow for a newly created or modified file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Triggers a flow for a newly created or modified file
```

+

> Triggers a flow for a newly created or modified file.

Reviewer: These are not complete sentences so they shouldn't have periods.

Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port
* *Scheduler* 
+
Initiates a flow when a time-based condition is met.
+

> See xref:anypoint-code-builder::acb-component-scheduler.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:anypoint-code-builder::acb-component-scheduler.adoc[].
```

For example, to configure the *On New or Updated* trigger:

. Add the *On New or Updated* operation to the canvas UI.
. Click the *On New or Updated* operation on the canvas UI. 
. In the *General* tab, configure the following attributes:
+

> [%header%autowidth.spread]

Reviewer: Can you reuse this table from the Reference (if you are going to have one)? If not, can you document the most important fields and refer to the Reference for the others?

Author: We can't reuse anything from references because references are generated. But maybe I (or you) can think this through and find a way. Otherwise, the only thing we are documenting in this topic is the stuff that appears in the ACB configuration UI, and the XML names don't align to the UI. I would love to revisit this later on.

|===
| UI Field | Description | Required

> |Directory |The directory where polled files are located. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Directory |The directory where polled files are located. | No
```
```suggestion
|Directory |Directory where polled files are located. | No
```

> |Recursive |Whether or not to use files contained in sub-directories. | No

Reviewer: If selected...

> |Recursive |Whether or not to use files contained in sub-directories. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Recursive |Whether to use files contained in sub-directories. | No
```

|Directory |Directory where polled files are located. | No

> |Recursive |Uses files contained in sub-directories if selected. | No

Reviewer: For consistency: If selected...

> |Matcher | A matcher used to filter events on files that don't meet the matcher's criteria. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Matcher | Matcher used to filter events on files that don't meet the matcher's criteria. | No
```

Reviewer: Will users know what a matcher is?

> | Watermark mode a|Select this option to pick only files that were created or updated after the last poll was executed. 

Reviewer: If selected, picks only...

Options include:

* DISABLED
* MODIFIED_TIMESTAMP
* CREATED_TIMESTAMP | No

> |Time between size check | Wait time in milliseconds between size checks to determine if a file is ready to read. This allows a file write to complete before processing. Mule runtime performs two size checks and waits the specified amount of time between calls. If both checks return the same value, the file is ready to read. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Time between size check | Wait time, in milliseconds, between size checks to determine if a file is ready to read. This allows a file write to complete before processing. Mule runtime performs two size checks and waits the specified amount of time between calls. If both checks return the same value, the file is ready to read. | No
```

|Time between size check unit | Time unit for *Time between size check*.| No

> |Scheduling strategy | Triggers execution of the flow based on a time-based condition. This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See <<scheduling-strategy>>. | Yes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Scheduling strategy | Triggers execution of the flow based on a time-based condition. This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See <<scheduling-strategy>>. | Yes 
```
```suggestion
|Scheduling strategy | Triggers the flow's execution based on a time-based condition. This field is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See <<scheduling-strategy>>. | Yes 
```

3+| *Post processing action* 

> |Auto delete | Select this option to delete each processed file after it is processed, which causes all files obtained in the next poll to be treated as new files. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Auto delete | Select this option to delete each processed file after it's processed, which causes all files obtained in the next poll to be treated as new files. | No
```

3+| *Post processing action* 

> |Auto delete | Deletes each processed file after it's processed, which causes all files obtained in the next poll to be treated as new files, if selected. | No

Reviewer: For consistency: If selected...

> |Move to directory | Enter the path to the directory to send each processed file to after it processed. This is an alternative to *Auto delete* if you don't want to delete the file.| No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Move to directory | Directory path to which to send each processed file after it processes. This is an alternative to *Auto delete* if you don't want to delete the file.| No
```

> |Rename to | This works in tandem with *Move to directory*. Enter a file name instead of a path. The connector retains the original file name if you don't configure this field. | No

Reviewer: "in tandem" implies that these two fields work together. Is that correct? It is not clear what this does. Does it rename the file after it is moved?

Author: Yes, that's correct.

Reviewer: I think that you should state explicitly that it renames a file after it's moved.

> |Apply post action when failed | This option is selected (true) by default. This determines whether to apply any of the post actions (*Auto delete* and *Move to directory*) in case file processing fails. If you de-select this option, no failed files are moved or deleted. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Apply post action when failed | If selected, applies any of the post actions (*Auto delete* and *Move to directory*) in case the file processing fails. If you de-select this option, no failed files are moved or deleted. | No
```

|Rename to | Renames a file to this value when it is moved. This attribute works in tandem with *Move to directory*. The connector retains the original file name if you don't configure this field. | No

> |Apply post action when failed | Applies any of the post actions (*Auto delete* and *Move to directory*) in case the file processing fails if selected. If you de-select this option, no failed files are moved or deleted. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Apply post action when failed | If selected, applies a post action (*Auto delete* or *Move to directory*) if the file processing fails. If unselected, no failed files are moved or deleted. | No
```

[[adding-components-to-project]]
== Adding Components to Your Project

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-add-components-to-project"]

[[add-global-config]]
== Adding a Global Configuration

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-add-global-config"]

[[configuring-component-attributes]]
== Configuring Component Attributes

include::connectors::partial$configure-acb-connectors-partial.adoc[tag="acb-configure-attributes"]

=== Configuring the Copy Operation

> The *Copy* operation copies the file or directory specified in *Source Path* into the *Target Path*. The source path can be either a file or a directory. If it points to a directory, then it is copied recursively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Copy* operation copies the file or directory specified in *Source Path* into the *Target Path*. The source path can be either a file or a directory. If it points to a directory, then it is copied recursively.
```
```suggestion
The *Copy* operation copies the file or directory specified in *Source Path* into the *Target Path*. The source path can be either a file or directory. If *Source Path* points to a directory, then the directory is copied recursively.
```

. Click the *Copy* operation on the canvas UI to configure the following attributes in the *General* tab:
+
include::connectors::partial$acb-config-file-connector-partial.adoc[tag="general-tab-attributes"]

. Click the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
include::connectors::partial$acb-config-file-connector-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

=== Configuring the Create Directory Operation

The *Create Directory* operation creates a directory in the specified *Directory path*.

. Click the *Create Directory* operation on the canvas UI to configure the following attributes in the *General* tab:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description | Required

> | Directory path |The new directory's path name, for example `~/newFolder`. | Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Directory path |New directory's path name, for example `~/newFolder`. | Yes
```

|===
. Click the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
include::connectors::partial$acb-config-file-connector-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

=== Configuring the Delete Operation

> The *Delete* operation deletes the file the *Directory path* field points to, as long as the file isn't locked. 

Reviewer: What happens if *Directory path* points to a directory?

Author: This is only for deleting files.

> The *Delete* operation deletes the file the *Directory path* field points to, as long as the file isn't locked. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Delete* operation deletes the file that the *Directory path* field points to, as long as the file isn't locked. 
```

. Click the *Delete* operation on the canvas UI to configure the following attributes in the *General* tab:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description | Required

> | Directory path |The new directory's path name, for example `~/newFolder`. | Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Directory path |New directory's path name, for example `~/newFolder`. | Yes
```

| Attribute | Description | Required

> | Directory path |The path to the file to delete. | Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Directory path |Path to the file to delete. | Yes
```

+
include::connectors::partial$acb-config-file-connector-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

=== Configuring the List Operation

> Use the *List* operation to list all the files in the *Directory path*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the *List* operation to list all files in the *Directory path*.
```

> If there is a sub-directory in the *Directory path*, the output list includes its contents depending on the value of the *Recursive* parameter.

Reviewer: If there is a sub-directory in the *Directory path* and the value of *Recursive* is `xxx`, then the output list...

. Click the *List* operation on the canvas UI to configure the following attributes in the *General* tab:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Attribute | Description | Required
| Directory path| Path to the directory with the files to list. | Yes

> | Recursive | If this option is selected, the contents of sub-directories are also listed in the output. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Recursive | If selected, the contents of sub-directories are also listed in the output. | No
```

> |File Matching Rules a| Filters files based on the matching criteria you use for accepting or rejecting a file. To see an example of file matching rules, see xref:file-list.adoc#file-matcher[Filter Files by Matching Criteria]. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|File Matching Rules a| Filters files based on the matching criteria that you use for accepting or rejecting a file. For an example of file matching rules, see xref:file-list.adoc#file-matcher[Filter Files by Matching Criteria]. | No
```

|===
. Click the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description | Required

> |Time between size check | Wait time in milliseconds between size checks to determine if a file is ready to read. This allows a file write to complete before processing. Mule runtime performs two size checks and waits the specified amount of time between calls. If both checks return the same value, the file is ready to read. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Time between size check | Wait time, in milliseconds, between size checks to determine if a file is ready to read. This allows a file write to complete before processing. Mule runtime performs two size checks and waits the specified amount of time between calls. If both checks return the same value, the file is ready to read. | No
```

|Time between size check unit | Time unit for *Time between size check*.| No
| Subset | Limits and sorts the number of files returned. | No
|Streaming strategy | This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See <<configuring-streaming-strategy>>. | No
|Target Variable | Name of the variable on which the operation's output is placed. | No

> |Target Value | An expression that's evaluated against the operation's output. The outcome of that expression is stored in the target variable. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Target Value | Expression that's evaluated against the operation's output. The outcome of this expression is stored in the target variable. | No
```

| Error Mappings a| This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:mule-runtime::mule-error-concept.adoc[]. | No
| Reconnection strategy a| This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:file-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect] and xref:file-documentation.adoc#reconnect-forever[Reconnect Forever], and <<configuring-reconnection-strategy>>. | No
|===

=== Configuring the Move Operation

> The *Move* operation moves the file or directory from the *Source path* (a file or directory) into the *Target Path*. If the *Source path* points to a directory, then the directory is moved recursively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Move* operation moves the file or directory from the *Source path* to the *Target Path*. If the *Source path* points to a directory, then the directory is moved recursively.
```

. Click the *Move* operation on the canvas UI to configure the following attributes in the *General* tab:
+
include::connectors::partial$acb-config-file-connector-partial.adoc[tag="general-tab-attributes"]
. Click the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
include::connectors::partial$acb-config-file-connector-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

=== Configuring the Read Operation

> The *Read* operation reads the content and metadata of a file at the specified path. The operation returns a message whose payload is an input stream containing the file's content. The metadata is represented as a `LocalFileAttributes` object that's placed as the message attributes (`Message#getAttributes()`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Read* operation reads the content and metadata of a file at the specified path. The operation returns a message whose payload is an input stream that contains the file's content. The metadata is represented as a `LocalFileAttributes` object that's placed as the message attributes (`Message#getAttributes()`).
```

Reviewer: Not sure "that's placed as message attributes" is the best wording. Maybe "expressed as message attributes"?

> A best effort is made to determine the MIME type of the file being read. The file's extension is used to make an educated guess on the file's MIME type. You can force the output encoding and MIME type with the *Output MIME type* and *Output encoding* optional parameters.

Reviewer: I don't think you need the first sentence.

Can you make the second sentence active?

on > about

You can force... > You can specify the output encoding and MIME type by using the optional *Output MIME type* and *Output encoding* parameters.

. Click the *Read* operation on the canvas UI to configure the following attributes in the *General* tab:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| Attribute | Description | Required

> | File Path |The path to the file to read. | Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| File Path |Path to the file to read. | Yes
```

|===
. Click the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description | Required

> |Lock | Select to place a file system-level lock on the file until the input stream the operation returns is closed or fully consumed. Be aware that the lock is provided by the host file system, so its behavior might change depending on the mounted drive and the operation system on which Mule runtime is running. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Lock | If selected, places a file system-level lock on the file until the input stream that the operation returns is closed or fully consumed. The lock is provided by the host file system, so its behavior might change depending on the mounted drive and the operation system on which Mule runtime is running. | No
```

> |Time between size check | Wait time in milliseconds between size checks to determine if a file is ready to read. This allows a file write to complete before processing. Mule runtime performs two size checks and waits the specified amount of time between calls. If both checks return the same value, the file is ready to read. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Time between size check | Wait time, in milliseconds, between size checks to determine if a file is ready to read. This allows a file write to complete before processing. Mule runtime performs two size checks and waits the specified amount of time between calls. If both checks return the same value, the file is ready to read. | No
```

|Time between size check unit | Time unit for *Time between size check*.| No

> | Output MIME type |MIME type of the payload this operation outputs. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Output MIME type |MIME type of the payload that this operation outputs. | No
```

> | Parameters |Appends a key-value pair for a reader property to the value of the *Output MIME type* attribute. Multiple key-value pairs are allowed. | No

Reviewer: See my previous edit for this field.

> |Output encoding |Encoding of the payload this component outputs. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Output encoding |Encoding of the payload that this component outputs. | No
```

|Streaming Strategy | This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See <<configuring-streaming-strategy>>. | No 
|Target Variable | Name of the variable on which the operation's output is placed. | No

> |Target Value | An expression that's evaluated against the operation's output. The outcome of that expression is stored in the target variable. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Target Value | An expression that's evaluated against the operation's output. The outcome of this expression is stored in the target variable. | No
```

> |Target Value | An expression that's evaluated against the operation's output. The outcome of this expression is stored in the target variable. | No

Reviewer: I may have missed this, but it would be good to remove "An" for consistency with other descriptions.

Author: I probably missed it. You made your comment global but there were a lot to remove!

| Error Mappings a| This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:mule-runtime::mule-error-concept.adoc[]. | No
| Reconnection strategy a| This attribute is not currently enabled in the configuration UI. Configure it in the XML editor. See xref:file-documentation.adoc#reconnect[Reconnect] and xref:file-documentation.adoc#reconnect-forever[Reconnect Forever], and <<configuring-reconnection-strategy>>. | No
|===

=== Configuring the Rename Operation

> The *Rename* operation renames the file specified in the *Path* field to the name provided in the `to` parameter. The `to` parameter must not contain any path separators, or a `FILE:ILLEGAL_PATH` is thrown.

Reviewer: The *Rename* operation renames the file specified in the *Path* field to the name provided in the `to` parameter. If the `to` parameter contains path separators, a `FILE:ILLEGAL_PATH` error is thrown.
```

. Click the *Rename* operation on the canvas UI to configure the following attributes in the *General* tab:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description | Required
| Path |Path to the file to rename. | Yes
| New Name | The new name for the file. | Yes

> |Overwrite |If a file already exists with the name you specified in *New Name*, the target file is overwritten. | No

Reviewer: To be parallel with other descriptions:

If selected, overwrites the target file if a file...

|===
. Click the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
include::connectors::partial$acb-config-file-connector-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

=== Configuring the Write Operation

The *Write* operation writes content into the file specified in *Path*.

. Click the *Write* operation on the canvas UI to configure the following attributes in the *General* tab:
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
| UI Field | Description | Required

> | Path |Path to the directory with the file to write content to. | Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Path |Path to the directory that contains the file to write content to. | Yes
```

> | Content |The content to write in to the file. Defaults to the *Content* payload. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Content |The content to write to the file. Defaults to the *Content* payload. | No
```

> | New Name | The new name for the file. | Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| New Name | New name for the file. | Yes
```

> |Create parent directories a|If the target path or its parent don't exist, then a parent folder is created if *Create parent directories* is selected (`true`). If *Create parent directories*  isn't selected (`false`), then a `FILE:ILLEGAL_PATH` error is thrown when you try to perform the operation. | No

Reviewer: See my previous edits for this field.

> |Write Mode a| Defines what to do if the file already exists. The options include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Write Mode a| What to do if the file already exists. The options include:
```

** OVERWRITE (Default)
** APPEND
** CREATE_NEW
|===
. Click the *Advanced* tab to configure the following attributes:
+
include::connectors::partial$acb-config-file-connector-partial.adoc[tag="advanced-tab-attributes"]

> . Select *Lock* to place a file system-level lock on the file until the input stream the operation returns is closed or fully consumed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Lock* to place a file-system-level lock on the file until the input stream that the operation returns is closed or fully consumed. 
```

> | Content |The content to write to the file. Defaults to the *Content* payload. | No

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Content |Content to write to the file. Defaults to the *Content* payload. | No
```
